---
type: post
template: post
title: The Dryer Vent Birds
date: 2019-08-18 13:00:00 -0700
updated: 2019-08-18 13:00:00 -0700
url: dryer-birds
tags: birds
      nature
summary: Observations of a sparrow family living in a dryer vent.
---

A couple of [house sparrows][wiki] have decided to build a nest across
from my kitchen window. This has caused my mornings to take a bit of
an ornithological turn recently. A few minutes of casual bird watching
over coffee is a nice way to start the day.

The sparrows are living in a dryer exhaust vent on the condo building
neighboring mine. The vent is [louvered][louver]: a slatted design
which allows outgoing air to pass through while keeping out rain, dirt,
and wildlife (in theory).

I captured about an hour's worth of sparrow activities by propping my
phone on the kitchen windowsill. Here are a few clips:

<video src="/images/dryer-birds/birds_600.webm" loop autobuffer controls muted style="max-width:100%; border:1px solid #e1e1e1;" width="600">
Sorry, your browser doesn't support html5 videos =(
</video>
*Both parents take a turn feeding chicks (00:30)*

<video src="/images/dryer-birds/birds1_600.webm" loop autobuffer controls muted style="max-width:100%; border:1px solid #e1e1e1;" width="600">
Sorry, your browser doesn't support html5 videos =(
</video>
*Sparrow and fledglings (00:19)*

When I think of animals that have adapted to urban environments,
coyotes and squirrels have usually come to mind before birds. That's
not fair, because many bird species do quite well in urban habitats
(I'm looking at you, pigeons). Birds coexist so seamlessly that they
have been reduced to another fact of city life.

By building a nest in the dryer vent the sparrows have crossed a
threshold. Instead of just passively existing in the city, the birds
are actively repurposing human infrastructure. This act of intrusion
and appropriation has a boldness that I appreciate. Humans take so
much habitat that it feels just for birds to intrude on some of ours.

Watching the dryer vent sparrows has caused me to take more notice of
urban birds. Next spring I am planning to put a birdhouse on my
balcony to offer an alternative accommodation option. Whether a family
of birds will decide to use it instead of a warm dryer vent is yet to
be seen.

## Further reading

- [House Sparrows - CUBS Bird Guide: Canada][celebrate]
- [The Colonels - Jenny Odell][colonels]

[wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/House_sparrow
[louver]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louver
[celebrate]: https://celebrateurbanbirds.org/learn/birds/focal-species/house-sparrow/?region=canada
[colonels]: https://www.sierraclub.org/sierra/colonels-birdwatching-city-urban-night-heron-oakland
